# Map a set of routes

`map_routes` plots routes, with many options

## Usage

``` r
map_routes(
  thin_map,
  routes = NA,
  crs = himach::crs_Atlantic,
  show_route = c("speed", "aircraft", "time", "circuity", "acceleration", "traffic"),
  fat_map = NA,
  avoid_map = NA,
  ap_loc = NA,
  ap_col = "darkblue",
  ap_size = 0.4,
  forecast = NA,
  fc_var = NA_character_,
  fc_text = NA_character_,
  crow = FALSE,
  crow_col = "grey70",
  crow_size = 0.2,
  route_envelope = FALSE,
  bound = TRUE,
  bound_margin_km = 200,
  simplify_km = 8,
  land_f = "grey90",
  buffer_f = "grey60",
  land_c = "grey85",
  land_s = 0.2,
  avoid_f = "grey80",
  avoid_c = "grey95",
  avoid_s = 0.3,
  l_alpha = 0.8,
  l_size = 0.5,
  e_alpha = 0.4,
  e_size = 0.6,
  e_col = "grey70",
  refuel_airports = ap_loc,
  rap_col = "red",
  rap_size = 0.4,
  scale_direction = -1,
  title = "",
  subtitle = "",
  warn = FALSE,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- thin_map:

  The minimum is a `MULTIPOLYGON` map, 'thin' in that it is without
  buffer, so a normal coastline map.

- routes:

  as generated by
  [`find_route`](https://david6marsh.github.io/himach/reference/find_route.md)

- crs:

  Coordinate reference system, default `crs_Atlantic`.

- show_route:

  one of "speed", "aircraft", "time", "circuity", "accel", "traffic" to
  indicate what goes in the legend.

- fat_map:

  optional coast + buffer map, default NA.

- avoid_map:

  optional map of no-fly zones, default NA.

- ap_loc:

  Show used origin and destination airports if this is a set of airports
  from
  [`make_airports`](https://david6marsh.github.io/himach/reference/make_airports.md),
  or not if NA (default). This dataset can be all airports, and is
  filtered to those used by `routes`.

- ap_col, ap_size:

  Colour and size of used airport markers (dark blue, 0.4)

- forecast, fc_var, fc_text:

  Forecast set and two strings. See details, default NA.

- crow, crow_col, crow_size:

  If TRUE, show the 'crow-flies' direct great circle, in colour
  `crow_col` and thickness `crow_size`. Default FALSE, "grey70", 0.2

- route_envelope:

  show the route envelope (default FALSE).

- bound, bound_margin_km:

  If bound=TRUE (default) crop to bounding box of the `routes`, with
  additional `bound_margin_km` in km (default 200)

- simplify_km:

  Simplify the two maps to this scale before plotting (default 10).

- land_f, buffer_f, avoid_f:

  fill colours for thin, fat and no-fly maps, default grey 90, 70 and
  80, respectively

- land_c, land_s:

  boundary colour and size for land areas (countries), default grey 85
  and 0.2, respectively (use NA to turn off)

- avoid_c, avoid_s:

  boundary colour and size for avoid areas, default grey 95 and 0.3,
  respectively

- l_alpha, l_size:

  line (route) settings for alpha (transparency) and width, defaults 0.6
  and 0.4.

- e_col, e_alpha, e_size:

  colour, alpha and width for the range envelope. Default "grey70", 0.4,
  0.6

- refuel_airports:

  Show the used refuel airports using these locations, or nothing if NA.
  (Defaults to same as `ap_loc`.)

- rap_col, rap_size:

  Colour and size of refuel airport markers (red, 0.4)

- scale_direction:

  Passed to scale_colour_viridis, either -1 (default) or or 1.

- title, subtitle:

  Passed to ggplot.

- warn:

  if TRUE show some warnings (when defaults loaded) (default FALSE)

- ...:

  further parameters passed to `scale_colour_viridis_b` (or \_c, \_d),
  such as `breaks = `.

## Value

A `ggplot`.

## Details

This function plots the routes, with options for additional layers.
Multiple routes are expected, and they can be coloured by time
advantage, by speed along each segment, or by aircraft type.

The option `show_route` "time" requires 'advantage_h' to have been added
to the routes set, from the route summary. If it hasn't then this is
done in a local version, then discarded. Running `summarise_routes` to
do this requires an airport dataset; if `is.na(ap_loc)` then this is not
available, so a default set is used. You can turn on `warn` to see if
this is happening, but by default it is silent.

For `show_route = ` "speed", "aircraft", "time", "circuity" or "accel",
the information is already available in the `routes` dataset. For
`show_route = "traffic"` you need to provide a forecast dataset that
contains at least the `fullRouteID and acID` fields which are normal in
the `routes` dataset, and a field giving the volume of the forecast
`fc_var`. This could be flights, seats, or something else: use `fc_text`
for the legend title to show the units of `fc_var`. Combinations of
`fullRouteID and acID` must be unique, which probably means you must
filter by forecast year and forecast scenario before passing to
`map_routes`.

The time to compute the map may not be very different with `simplify_km`
varying between 2km and 20km, but the time to plot on the screen, or
`ggsave` to a file, is longer than the compute time. It is this latter
time that's reduced by simplifying the maps. For single, or short
routes, you can probably see the difference between 2km and 10km, so
it's your choice to prefer speed or beauty.

## Examples

``` r
#see introductory vignette
```
